# Applied IBM Data Science Capstone

## 1. Introduction 

I am an international student currently studying and living in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia. I have been living in Newcastle with my wife and a four-year-old boy for more than a year. We plan to stay in Newcastle for at least three and four following years. What strikes me over the year is that which suburb in Newcastle that is worth to live in the near future. On the one hand, as a family first time living abroad together, we love to experience the Australian lifestyle in general and in the Newcastle area in specific. On the other hand, we have certain constraints such as financial capability and time raising our kid and provides him with a good education. 

In this capstone project, I will find suburbs in the City of Newcastle that meets certain criteria. I consider three specific criteria which are as follows: 
1. Living lifestyle in the suburb and nearby area where we can interact and enjoy the time while living in Australia. 
2. The price of the property for renting or buying (hopefully in the future) needs to be in an acceptable range which I can afford to pay. 
3. The primary school in the suburb provides good education so that I am confident to have my son go to school and know that he is in good hands. 

I believe the question where to live, and what criteria affecting the choice are crucial to every people who choose to move to a new country, region or area. In this project, I focus specifically on the City of Newcastle. I try to answer the question of which suburb I might consider living in the future based on my own criteria. In my opinion, these criteria are fundamentally basic and relevant factors that apply to almost anyone who relocates to a different place, especially those come together with a small family. The data I collected and analyzed and how I answered my questions are particularly beneficial for those who recently made their move or currently consider leaving for Newcastle. 

## 2. Data 

Firstly, I need to have a list of suburbs in the City of Newcastle, the corresponding postcode and coordinates (latitude and longitude). The list of the sources of data and short explanation are provided as follows: 
- List of suburbs in the Greater Newcastle region (including City of Newcastle, City of Lake Macquarie, City of Cessnock etc.). In this project, we only are only interested in the City of Newcastle with 51 suburbs. The details could be found in the link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_suburbs_in_Greater_Newcastle,_New_South_Wales. 
- List of postcode, and coordinates of every suburbs in Australia. The data is actually in SQL syntax to create schema and data. The link is https://gist.github.com/randomecho/5020859. I download the SQL file, imported to mySQL workbench then run the script to generate the data. The data was then exported to a CSV file to have easy access in the future. For the coordinates in the provided data, I tested and found the provided location of certain suburbs (including some in the City of Newcastle) are totally wrong and misleading, so I decided not to use the coordinates data in the above link.
- I generate the coordinates of 51 suburbs in the City of Newcastle with the package geocoder.arcgis. More information could be found in the code. 

Secondly, I use the above data, including suburb name, postcode and coordinate to find surrounding venues of each suburb in the City of Newcastle. I took advantage of FourSquare data. I applied the k-mean clustering algorithm to achieve the group of suburbs, sharing similarities and further helps me to determine the living lifestyle of each group of suburbs. Based on my own judgement and experience living in Newcastle, I am surprised by how good the results yielded by the algorithm. It also proves that data generated from FourSquare are adequate. The whole process helps me to narrow down the list of potential suburbs that meet my criteria. 

Thirdly, I would like to know how expensive to rent or buy a property in each suburb. Living in Australia, I found the major proportion of living cost comes from rent. To my surprise, there is no complete data of property price in every suburb in the City of Newcastle. 
- The one I found most relevant was provided in the report: https://paigcrm.s3.amazonaws.com/2018/05/02/0d9101ce429fbd0c05c76f1d6d18db862bd57b4fe8b75b6930ebe0d88f927e18/Newcastle_Location_Report.pdf. The relevant data only cover 28 out of 51 suburbs in the area. 
- I made the assumption that the missing property price of each suburb is the average of the available price of the neighbouring suburbs. In order to identify the list of neighbours of each suburb, I take advantage of the package geopandas to read spatial data with Python. The shapefile data and relevant database of the whole state of New South Wales are downloaded in https://data.gov.au/dataset/ds-dga-91e70237-d9d1-4719-a82f-e71b811154c6/distribution/dist-dga-5e295412-357c-49a2-98d5-6caf099c2339/details?q=Newcastle%20suburb. The neighbours of each suburbs are those who share the polygon borders. 

Fourthly, I need to find a complete list of primary schools in each suburb in the City of Newcastle. Again to my surprise, there is no source of data provides what I am looking for. I found a website providing the list of primary school in each suburb as long as the suburb name and postcode are filled in the search box. I currently have 51 suburbs. The whole manual process to fill in the search box and to get the list of each suburb is long and might generate unnecessary errors, so I decided to automate the process. I took advantage of the package selenium in Python to create a driver of the Firefox browser that provides me with a way to automatically fill the search box with all suburbs and get the complete result. The link of the website is http://bettereducation.com.au/school/Primary/nsw/nsw_primary_school_rating.aspx. Details of the whole process are further provided in the Jupyter notebook. 

Based on all the data that I collected and analyzed, I can filter the data based on my certain criteria. The filtering procedure yields a list of potential suburbs that I prefer to relocate in the near future. I hope this work will help other determining which suburb in the City of Newcastle to move in.
